---
layout: diary

title:  "Theory, Craft, Practice. Pt. 1"

date:   2024-02-09 8:00:00 -0500

categories: diary

type: "diary"

image: "NA"

tags: [project]

description: "Christian Solorzano is a product designer, community leader, educator, and podcast host."

about: "NA"

caption: "NA"

client: "Self"

published: false

---
I was asked a few days ago, “what exactly does theory, craft, and practice, mean in regards to the lens through 
which the Chicago Graphic Design Club creates programming and community”. Here is an attempt at a brief answer.


## Theory
In school, I 
learned about the theory — it was done so through lectures on the grid, typography, composition, scale, color theory,
and so forth. This taught me to be aware of how design teachings come together to communicate or express an idea. 
Assignments involved reading dense text that often felt uninviting and dry. Much of it was difficult to comprehend 
because without a personal practice or application experience, the concepts and teachings meant nothing. It was only 
through *doing*, that theory made sense. Some people, learn through practice. It is like wanting to learn to 
meditate but only reading about meditating but never actually doing it. Your lived experience will overrule any 
concept or theory that exists in a book. Theory is words, terminology, concepts, ideas, it is intellectual — and 
intellect is not always trustworthy. Awful things have happened throughout history in the name of “intellect”. 
Therefore, learn it but don't hold too dearly to it.

If you focus too much on theory, you risk becoming what is referred to as a “armchair intellectual”. Somebody who 
spends too much time in their head. Or perhaps a ”spiritual materialist”, which is someone that believes that 
through the accumulation of books, teachings, courses, subscriptions, products, and even identity they will somehow get closer to some “absolute truth”. 

Theory is great but theory without practice or craft is just paint in a bucket. 

## Craft
Craft, is the doing. It is the methods in which to create. It is the familiarity with design concepts and 
understanding how to combine and utilize them. Craft is the recipe that lets you know, this is how you cook this 
vegan chocolate cake. You will need these ingredients, these portions, and this is the sequence in which you are 
expected to follow the steps. Craft considers theory but doesn't necessarily need to obey it. Theory might tell us 
not to combine so-and-so ingredient with this other so-and-so ingredient, but maybe because this is a recipe that 
has been in your family for decades, you understand that the theory can go piss off, because your lived experience 
is the one to listen to and trust. And again, it is always a great idea to question the *theory*. Whose theory is it?
What is their agenda? Does it align with my values? What are my values, etc. 


## Practice
The most difficult part is the doing. 