---
layout: diary

title:  "Eno Review"

date:   2024-05-28 8:00:00 -0500

categories: diary

type: "diary"

image: "NA"

tags: [project]

description: "Christian Solorzano is a product designer, community leader, educator, and podcast host."

about: "NA"

caption: "NA"

client: "Self"

published: true

---
In May of 2024, director [Gary Hustwit](https://www.hustwit.com/){:target="_blank"}, did a screening of his latest 
documentary, [Eno](https://www.hustwit.com/eno){:target="_blank"}, which is about 
the artist Brian Eno, here in Chicago. I've been a fan of Eno for as long as I can remember. I discovered his music 
early into my teenage years and his body of work, including solo albums, collaborations, paintings, and experiments, 
all left a lasting impression that to this day continues to inspire much of what I do.

With that said, I was excited when I learned about this new documentary and being familiar with Hustwit's previous 
documentaries, I was confident this would be great — which it was but also, it wasn't. What was great was 
the unseen footage of Eno, his stories and most importantly, his narrative and commentary. My favorite scenes were 
of Eno playing back old tape recordings and laughing at his younger self and 
also of Eno in his studio searching 
his favorite songs on YouTube and being interrupted by YouTube advertisements to which he responds with a middle finger 
directed at his computer. It's lighthearted, intimate, and personal moments like this that were the highlight of the 
film... As a viewer, and I can only assume, many other Eno fans, would have preferred more of this as well. Even if 
it were a mini-series running multiple hours, or even a 3+ hour documentary.  

I'd like to add that this film was crafted using proprietary Generative AI created specifically for this 
film. 
And if 
there is 
any 
artist that 
is most worthy of innovative technology, it would be Brian Eno — but for an informational documentary about his life 
as an artist, Generative AI seems like a poor collaborative tool. Fans after all, want to see all the footage. I 
don't care about how you made the film. If Eno were followed around and recorded with an iPhone, that would be 
perfectly fine. Generative AI used as a primary or even secondary method for filmmaking seems like a pure gimmick.

Sure, Eno used generative technology for his music but the difference between his music and this documentary
is 
that 
a documentary transmits information and a narrative — where Eno‘s music has always been about surrendering to the 
process and leaving the listener to arrive at their own interpretations of the music. Eno mentioned during the film 
that his music has been both used as a coping agent for detoxing (David Bowie listened to Discreet Music when 
attempting to become sober), women giving birth, and for myself, I've used Eno's albums, Reflection, and Thursday 
Afternoon for sleep. That is the 
beauty (sometimes)
of 
using generative 
technology for 
art,
is 
that it produces artistic outcomes and often stylistic choices... 

However... this documentary about Eno comes nothing close to ever even 
being on the same page as Eno‘s generative work. The interstitial moments throughout the film that showcased code 
(aka generative AI working in the background) in between sections of the film were empty of soul. It is like taking 
your car to the car shop and sitting there watching the mechanic change your oil. Is it interesting? Maybe 
the first time but after a while you kinda lose interest in seeing how the whole thing “works”. Maybe if as you 
watched your car being worked on, something interesting or soothing occurred, like your favorite tea being served to 
you or your favorite song playing or perhaps every time you pick up your car after the service, there is a nice 
surprise waiting for you in the passenger seat. That would be nice. Wouldn't it? This documentary's use of 
generative AI offered none of that — no surprises, no joy, nothing remotely interesting other than choosing which 
clip plays next — similar to playing a playlist on shuffle or better, the iPod Shuffle from back in the day — 
remember those? When you play music on shuffle, are you interested in how Spotify or Apple Music is determining what 
plays next? No — you don't care because it does not matter. 

Additionally, the screening I saw missed my favorite parts of Eno's work, such as his projects with 
Cluster, Harmonia, Karl Hyde, and many more... I wanted to hear those stories and perhaps they exist in some other 
screening which will be up to the (damn) AI to concoct. 

With that said, I left the documentary feeling disappointed. Would I watch it again? Sure... But actually maybe not. 
I don't think I would. Maybe if all the footage was released and I could be the (intelligence) that chooses which 
scenes to 
show, then a definite yes — but till then, I think artificial intelligence will continue to bastardize and water 
down creativity and human soul. 

I've loved every other film Hustwit has done, but for Brian Eno, I think something much much much much more 
interesting was deserved. The end. 